
What is Kundalini Yoga, as taught by Yogi Bhajan?
Kundalini Yoga, as taught by Yogi Bhajan, is a way to exercise your mind, body and spirit. It enables you to reach a higher state of awareness, emotional stability, and strength by using several techniques. These Include pranayama (breathing exercises), kriyas (exercise sets), meditation, bhandas (body locks), mudras (gestures), mantras (chanting words) and visualization. Using these Kundalini Yoga techniques, you will raise the apana (energy you give out) to connect to the prana (energy you take ln) in order to align the chakras (points of energy centers). This allows you to reach a higher consciousness and understanding, while being fit and healthy. When doing Kundalini Yoga, you learn the proper way of conscious breathing, which can be difficult for beginners. This helps align your hean and mind. All of these techniques will cause you to think clearer and be emotionally ready to start and finish your day.
Kundalini Yoga, if done accurately, will slowly change your way of thinking.
You will start feeling more secure with yourself and your life. You may find that you will want to change your diet to be healthier. Further, you may find you have more time ln the day, feel less stressed, and sleep better at night. You will benefit from doing any Yoga, but Kundalini Yoga will give you a faster result. As long as you are committed to feeling happier, being stronger both inside and out, and want to be emotionally secure.
You may not always understand the exercises and chanting or why we are d0il’lg them, but, il"| the end, yOU Will feel the l'eSU|IS. As YOQI Bhajarl has Said, “Keep up and you will be kept up".
Kundalini Benefits for Athletes Kundalini Yoga ls a multi-faceted workout that exercises underdeveloped muscles, improves balance, and increases athletes' awareness of their physical and mental state. Sustained postures and stretching exercises, or "asana", build core strength, improve range of motion, and Increase circulation. Each asana incorporates breathing exercises, or 'pranayama," to build stamina, improving endurance. These techniques, together with controlled meditations and mantras, teach athletes to control their heart rate and maintain mental acuity under strain.
Kundalini yoga ls mlllenias-old study which, when combined with modem tralnlng and practice routines, may significantly improve the abilities of athletes across any physical discipline.
What is Pranayam?
Pranayam is the science of breathing techniques, that allows you to control and manage the prana (Life force). When you have learned to control your breath, you will have control over your mind.
Most of us don’t realize that we are breathing lnconectly. As a result we are more stressed, we don’t sleep well, cannot relax or even think clear. By applying the wide range of pranayam techniques to your daily life, you can manage the energies (emotional, health and consciousness) that tlow in and around you.
Thus helping to modify habits and bring momentum to yourself. You wlll llve a higher quality of life and extend your life span when applying correct breathing techniques (pranayam).
What are Mantras?
Mantras are formulas to help alter the chemistry of the brain by using the creative projection of sound. The mantras that we chant, in Kundalini Yoga, are spoken in Gurmukhi, the language of the sound current. When chanting, your tongue will flick the roof of your mouth, hitting one or more of the 84 meridian points. This action of chanting wlll start a chemical change in the brain, causing glands and parts of the brain to secrete. Through this secretion and vibration of the Naad (vibrational harmony), you will tune your consciousness into awareness and elevation. Enabling you to conquer depression, opening your self to compassion, and heightening your intuition and intelligence.
What is Kundalini Energy?
Kundalini energy resides in the base of your spine. lt lays dormant in all of us until we awaken lt by doing certain breathing and physical exercises, known as Kundalini Yoga. Yogi Bhajan said that, “Kundalini is the creative potential of the human being". When we raise that Kundalini energy we become more aware and therefore can live a healthier and happier life.

